<div class="blog">
  <h2>FutureLearn: Digital Skills: </h2>
  <h3>What is User testing?</h3>
  <p>Human beings can be bad at knowing/explaining what they want.<br>
  Doing it in the design phase, before any development, can save time, effort and money.<br>
  Investing 10% in UX can possibly improve sales by over double.<br>
  Small amounts of testing can impact the success of your business.</p>

  <p>All you need is a handful of user groups to work with your paper/interactive prototype and provide feedback.</p>

  <p>You are too close to look at work objectively, take the feedback to enhance your product.<br>
  It's important to understand that some comments might conflict with each other. <br>
  How frequently were the same comments made?<br>
  How big is the impact of the issue?<br>
  How much time/energy will it take to make adjustments?</p>

  <p>Prioritise actions to be taken.</p>

  <h2>Different Types of User Testing</h2>

  <h3>Task - based Testing</h3>
  <p>Important to get users carry out tasks with your prototype, even on paper.<br>
  Tasks should be based on user journeys / alternative paths defined earlier.<br>
  Write steps on what needs to be done, but don't tell how to perform that activity (don't lead the user!)</p>

  <p>Example:<br>
  DO log in to the website, using the password 123abc.<br>
  DON'T log into the site using the link in the top right hand corner of the screen, etc </p>

  <p>Watch how user performs tasks, reassure them to make them comfortable
  Testing the system, not the user!<br>
  If they get stuck, info can make design more intuitive to use.</p>

  <p>Record:</p>
  <ul>
    <li>errors user might make</li>
    <li>emotional reactions</li>
    <li>listening to how their experience was</li>
  </ul>

  <p>Usability can be measured using a standard set of questions.<br>
  The system usability scale has 10 statements with 5 response options per statement
  - reliable way to measure usability.</p>

  <h3>REAL WORLD TESTING</h3>
  <h4>SMARTPHONE, TABLET, SELF SERVICE CHECKOUT provide different interactions, consider this when providing real life testing to users
  <ul>
    <li>consider the environment where testing is taking place</li>
    <li>user might be in house alone, busy shopping centre</li>
  </ul>

  <h4>GORILLA TESTING</h4>
  <ul>
    <li>go out into the wild, speak to people</li>
    <li>allow them to handle the prototype and ask them questions</li>
  </ul>

  <h4>DIARY TESTING</h4>
  <ul>
    <li>give someone your prototype, let them use it in their daily life</li>
    <li>record their experiences</li>
  </ul>

  <h4>A/B Testing</h4>
  <ul>
    <li>2 versions of a product are trialed</li>
    <li>you can give different versions to different users, track feedback and scores</li>
    <li>good to do once a site has been launched, get real world statistics</li>
    <li>randomly give a page to each user, track how different pages perform</li>
  </ul>

  <h4>BETA TESTING</h4>
  <p>An early launch version, great time to do A/B testing.</p>


  <h3>INTERACTIVE DESIGN AND USEFUL TOOLS</h3>
  <h4>Prototyping tools</h4>
  <p>Simple tools</p>
  <ul>
    <li>Balsamiq, sketch and InVision</li>
  </ul>
  <p>More complex tools</p>
  <ul>
    <li>Azure, Justinmind and iRise</li>
  </ul>

  <h4>CMS</h4>
  <ul>
    <li>what website is built on</li>
    <li>create pages and menus, define what is one there</li>
  </ul>

  <h3>THE IMPORTANCE OF ANALYSING DATA</h3>
  <ul>
    <li>how do real people react to your site/product/service</li>
    <li>be able to collect much larger amounts of data</li>
    <li>how are sales, views, advertising successful, feedback users are leaving?</li>
    <li>diagnose any problems and test different options</li>
    <li>market expectations and needs are changing, important to review, improve, evolve</li>
  </ul>

  <p>Useful data points</p>
  <ol>
    <li>how people are getting to your page<br>
    (search engine?advert? direct link?)</li>
    <li>Conversions - How many people make a purchase compared to just browsing around</li>
    <li>Where are users dropping out</li>
    <li>How users are navigating through site</li>
    <li>How many users are bouncing (leave the site without engaging with content)</li>
    <li>How much time is spent on each of their pages (users stay long enough?)<br>
    If it's too little time, they usually got there by mistake</li>
  </ol>
  <p>Combine the data with realworld insights to understand what the numbers mean.</p>

  <p>Do more live testing, use results to prioritise updates that will give you the most value.<br>
  Add more features, or improve existing ones.</p>

  <p>Continuously consider the experience of your user.
  Do this by:</p>
  <ul>
    <li>empathising with your user</li>
    <li>measuring their behaviour</li>
    <li>design experience around their needs</li>
  </ul>

  <p>Netflix benefited from constantly analysing their user data, 
  consistently produce shows that keep viewers coming back. </p>

  <p>Visual Design is important</p>
  <ul>
    <li>It can help build immediate trust from a user when they view your site</li>
    <li>It can set the tone and give a user an impression of the kind of expereince they should expect</li>
    <li>It can help construct and clarify the elements on a page when there are multiple things to see</li>
  </ul>

  <h3>Decoding a Job Description - Junior UX Designer</h3>
  <p>key responsibilities</p>
  <h4>1. Sketching out visual concepts</h4>
  <p>creating wireframes, sketching out where different elements of an app/website would be placed<br>
  e.g. headings, buttons, advertisement</p>

  <h4>2. Assist in User research</h4>
  <p>could involve desk-based research into target audiences/behaviours,<br>
  organising workshops/interviews/focus groups</p>

  <h4>3. Analysing user feedback</h4>
  <p>meeting with users to test prototypes with them, observing interactions</p>

  <h4>4. Creating prototypes and user journeys</h4>

  <p>Key Skills</p>
  <ul>
    <li>degree in UI/UX related subject</li>
    <li>Interpersonal and team working skills</li>
    <li>Good time management and resilience</li>
    <li>Knowledge of design software</li>
    <li>Written communication skills</li>
  </ul>

</div>
